# CS-360-T4229-Mobile-Architect-Programming-23EW4
CS-360-T4229 Mobile Architect &amp; Programming 23EW4

There were various requirements that I had for the application that I developed. I decided to develop a weight tracking application. The app had to have 3 tables that stored daily weight, stored user logins, and a one-time weight that is stored. The application had to have a log in screen if it’s a returning user or create logins if it’s a new user. The application had to have a screen with a grid that shows all of the daily weights and the days entered. And finally, the application had to have a mechanism for the user to add a daily weight, a goal weight, and a notification system that would notify the user once goal weight is reached. 

I decided this application with all of the requirements in mind. I made sure the application was user friendly, and intuitive. I also wanted to make sure the application was kept fairly simple and focused on the goal. Keeping the user in mind at all times made sure this application was successful. 

When coding for this application I started from the top down. I started initially creating log in page and made sure it met the requirements. I then implemented and build the other screens and confirmed the requirements were met. I broke the requirements down into single requirements and coded those. Once I had majority of it done, I combined it and made sure the integration of the application worked well and a whole unit. I apply the same principles at work in my job right now when developing applications. I mainly focused on unit testing to make sure specific components were working as expected. Once I had the app up and running, I created specific test cases that went against the requirements and tested user (manual) testing of the application. Testing is one of the most important steps because it ensures the application is working as expected (bug free) and is fully functional. Users won’t use an application if it doesn’t’ perform as expected or doesn’t’ meet the user’s needs, so quality is very important. 

I had to innovate in this process when designing the application. I had to innovate because I needed to make sure the application stood out, but at the same time, it stayed within boundaries of what’s accepted as an Android application and uses Android standards. Finding the right balance between the two was challenging. I think I was successful in demonstrating my overall skills of planning and executing. Also, I displayed my skills of versatility well. When something went wrong, I had to improvise, adapt, and adjust my planning. I use these skills every day because I work in a setting that uses Agile, and Agile is all about adjusting on the fly and to keep going and make sure to deliver a quality product on time.
